# Layout and Stacks

- Quick Insert shortcut (Command + Shift + L)


### Text
- You can also insert modifiers that control the properties of the objects such as color, font, shadow, corner radius, etc.

```
Text("UI Design")
    .font(.title)
    .fontWeight(.semibold)
```

### VStack
- This will allow us to stack 2 Text elements together. As you place more elements, it'll take care of the layout automatically.

```
VStack {
    // Text
    Text("Certificate")
        .foregroundColor(Color("accent"))
        .font(.system(size: 20))
}
```

### Horizontal Alignment
- The `VStack` can have a left alignment which lets you align multiple items against each other. Please note that having a single item won't make a different.

```
VStack(alignment: .leading) {}
```

### Image
- You can drag and drop an Image next to the VStack and it'll create another HStack for you. The parent HStack will serve as a container so that we can apply additional styling.
- Let's drag and drop a logo at the right of the Texts. To restrict the size of the Image, you can set a frame. A .resizable() modifier will make sure that it scales within the bounds of the frame.

```
HStack {
    // VStack
    Image("Logo")
}
```

### Vertical Alignment
- When using HStack, you can align items vertically against each other.

```
HStack(alignment: .top) {}
```

### Spacer
- The spacer is an essential element that allows you to take the remaining space available. By default, SwiftUI stacks will take the minimum size and expand based on content. Using the Spacer will allow you to push everything to a maximum size.

```
HStack {
    // VStack
    Spacer()
    // Logo
}
```
- Then add a second image below the HStack in the visual editor.

```
VStack {
    // HStack
    Image("Card1")
}
```

### Frame
- The frame property serves as a maximum fixed size for your stack. You can also set the frame size using Inspect.

```
VStack {
    // HStack

    Spacer()

    // Background
}
.frame(width: 340.0, height: 220)
.background(Color.black)
```

### Image Modifiers
- When using a fixed image, it is essential that you set the frame size.

```
Image("Card1")
.resizable()
.aspectRatio(contentMode: .fill)
.frame(width: 300, height: 110, alignment: .top)
```

### Card Styling
```
.background(Color.black)
.cornerRadius(20)
.shadow(radius: 20)
```

### Padding
- Paddings by default are already well-spaced without entering any number. This helps you write less code while ensuring that your app looks good. You can also be specific about where to place your padding, such horizontal only.

All sides.
```
// HStack
.padding(20)
```

Or to specific sides.
```
// HStack
.padding(.top, 20)
.padding(.horizontal, 20)
```

### Dynamic Types
```
Text("UI Design")
    .font(.system(size: 20))
```

### Embed in HStack
- You can embed any element into an HStack or VStack by Command + Clicking the element and select Embed in HStack.

```
HStack {
  // Stack
}
```

### Card Back
- Let's add a card in the back and give it a blue color for now.

```
Color.blue
.frame(width: 300, height: 220)
.cornerRadius(20)
.shadow(radius: 20)
```

### ZStack
- The ZStack is useful for putting multiple elements on top of each in a 3 dimensional level (Z). Think of it like using position absolute in CSS.

```
ZStack {
  // Card
  // Card
}
```

### Offset
- To move elements in absolute position (x or y), you can use the offset modifier.

```
.offset(x: 0, y: -20)
```
