# Components and Visual Effects 2


### Extract Subview
- This will make your component only reusable inside the current file. To do so, Command + Click the parent stack and select: Extract Subview. Then, wait for ExtractedView() to appear and type the name of the component.
- 可以直接把 stack view extract 成 subview，非常方便

```
CardView()
```

### Card Back Component
- Let's create another component for the background card. Also, let's duplicate that component so that we have 2 background cards.

```
BackCardView()

BackCardView()
```

### Customizing a Component
- SwiftUI magically knows the type of component you're using and therefore, you can customize it further when using it without passing properties to them. That's awesome considering that in React, you have to pass props to customize your components.

```
BackCardView()
    .offset(x: 0, y: -40)
BackCardView()
    .offset(x: 0, y: -20)
CertificateView()
```

### Scale Effect
- The scale effect is useful when you don't want to manually set the frame size. It's also fantastic for animations and reusability.
- 調整整個 view Scale 大小

```
.scaleEffect(0.9)
.scaleEffect(0.95)
```

### Rotation
- You can create some interesting effects by lining the cards using different rotation degrees.
- 使用不同的角度旋轉卡片

```
.rotationEffect(Angle(degrees: 10))
.rotationEffect(.degrees: 5)
```

### 3D Rotation
- `.rotation3DEffect` will give a perspective transform to your cards. Not only can you customize the degrees, but you can set which dimension you'd like to use: x, y and z.
- 與 `Rotation` 不同的是可以同時調整 x、y、z 三軸方向

```
rotation3DEffect(Angle(degrees: 10), axis: (x: 10, y: 0, z: 0))
.rotation3DEffect(Angle(degrees: 5), axis: (x: 10, y: 0, z: 0))
```

### Blend Modes
- Design tools have had blend modes for decades. We're only starting to use them more prominently now in CSS and now in SwiftUI. You can create really interesting effects that match what you'd find in Sketch. Some of my favorite ones are the following.
- [Blend Modes](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/CSS/blend-mode) 

```
.blendMode(.softLight)
.blendMode(.overlay )
.blendMode(.hardLight )
.blendMode(.multiply )
```

### Title 
- Recreating the large title to be similar to iOS 13 is fairly simple. Let's use the .largeTitle font modifier and set it to bold. Also, let's add an image and align everything to top left using Spacer().

```
VStack {
    HStack {
        Text("Certificates")
            .font(.largeTitle)
            .fontWeight(.bold)
        Spacer()
    }
    .padding()
    Image("Background1")
    Spacer()
}
```

### TitleView Component
- Command click VStack and select Extract SubView TitleView(). This will keep our code clean and easy to manage.

### Multi-Lines Text
- Text elements can have multiple lines. Please note that the text won't always appear correctly in your Preview. Sometimes, it's best to test on your device as well to ensure that it's properly set up.

```
Text("This certificate is proof that Meng To has achieved the UI Design course with approval from a Design+Code instructor.")
    .multilineTextAlignment(.center)
    .font(.subheadline)
    .lineSpacing(4)
```

### Bottom Card
- Let's code the bottom card using a VStack and add some styling. We'll maximize to the full height of the screen and use offset y to push the card to the middle of the screen.

```
VStack {    
    // Text
    Spacer()
}
.padding()
.background(Color.white)
.cornerRadius(30)
.shadow(radius: 20)
.offset(y: 500)
```

### Opacity
- You can draw a rectangle with rounded corners by using the Rectangle view. Opacity is useful for views and for colors.
- 不透明度

```
Rectangle()
    .frame(width: 40, height: 5)
    .cornerRadius(3)
    .opacity(0.1)
```

### Stack Spacing
- The Stack spacing is like the Gap value in CSS Grid. It'll space your items consistently by using a value.

```
VStack(spacing: 20.0) { }
```

### Padding
- You can be specific with your padding. You can set to top, leading, trailing and bottom. Additionally, horizontal will do both left and right, while vertical will apply to top and bottom at the same time.
- 可以將 padding 分開設定

```
.padding(.top, 8)
.padding(.horizontal, 20)
```

### Max Width
- If you don't always want to use Spacer to use all available space, you can use the Min Max technique. Max width or height is extremely useful for making your layout adaptive.

```
.frame(maxWidth: .infinity)
```

### BottomCardView Component
- Command click VStack and select Extract SubView BottomCardView()

### Blur
- Blur in SwiftUI is very performant compared to other platforms. Let's add some blur to our components so that users can focus on the cards when it's active.

```
TitleView()
    .blur(radius: 20)

BottomCardView()
    .blur(radius: 20)
```

### Component Modifiers
- You can move your component's modifiers out of the component to be able to customize them more.

```
BackCardView()
    .background(Color("card4"))
    .cornerRadius(20)
    .shadow(radius: 20)
```
```
    BackCardView()
    .background(Color("card3"))
    .cornerRadius(20)
    .shadow(radius: 20)
```
