# Animations and States

### Animation States
- Just like in React, you have animation states. In this case, let's declare a Boolean that will toggle from true and false and vice versa.
- 用 State 狀態來變更顯示效果

```
@State var show = false
```
### Action with Toggle
- Your animation can start with the tap of an event. We'll need to add a Tap event to the front card. You can use the toggle() function to switch a Bool from true to false, and vice versa. 

```
.onTapGesture {
    self.show.toggle()
}
```

### Apply Animation
- In order to apply the animation, we'll need use a `condition`, asking, if show state is true, then apply 30, else apply 0. This will automatically animate between those two values when they're toggled.

```
show ? 0 : 5
```
Let's apply this technique to the degrees in our rotation3DEffect.

```
BackCardView()
.rotationEffect(Angle(degrees: show ? 0 : 5))
```

### Offset Animation
- We can also move the background cards a little by using the `offset` property.
- 用 State 更改位置

```
BackCardView()
    .offset(x: 0, y: show ? -400 : -40)

BackCardView()
    .offset(x: 0, y: show ? -200 : -20)
```

### Linear Animation
- Linear animation are constant. They don't accelerate or overshoot. They're good for animations like blur, opacity and constant movements.

```
.animation(.linear)
```

### Basic Animation with Curve
- The most popular type of animation timing is the easeIn, easeOut and easeInOut. The animation will accelerate at beginning, end or both.
- default 時間是在 0.3 ~ 0.5 之間
- easeInOut 會是比較好的選擇，因為 linear 很無聊！

```
.animation(.default)

.animation(.easeInOut(duration: 0.3))
```

### Blur Animation
- Let's apply a blur animation to the Title and bottom card.
- 使用動畫搭配模糊效果

```
TitleView()
    .blur(radius: show ? 20 : 0)
    .animation(.default)

BottomCardView()
    .blur(radius: show ? 20 : 0)
    .animation(.default)
```

### Color Animation
- Color animations can be really cool. We only need to change the color value.
- 利用 State 交換卡片顏色

```
BackCardView()
    .background(show ? Color("card3") : Color("card4"))

BackCardView()
    .background(show ? Color("card4") : Color("card3"))
```

### Animation Values
```
BackCardView()
    .animation(.easeInOut(duration: 0.5))

BackCardView()
    .animation(.easeInOut(duration: 0.3))
```
