# Gestures and Events

### State
- Just like animation states, the drag state can be declared the same way. Since we're going to store the x and y positions, we'll need the use the `CGSize`. We can reset its value by using the zero property.

```
@State var viewState: CGSize = .zero
```

### Create Gesture
- To add a gesture, you have to add a `.gesture()` modifier. Inside the parentheses, you can take advantage of a number of gestures: tap, long press, drag, etc. In this case, we'll use `DragGesture()`.
- The `onChange` event is triggered while the user is dragging.
- 把位移的值賦值給 viewState

```
.gesture(
    DragGesture()
        .onChanged { value in
            self.viewState = value.translation
        }
)
```

### Apply State Position to Objects
- Once we get the `Drag` position from the gesture, which is passed to the `viewState`, we can apply that position to our Views.
- response: 拖曳之後放開手勢物件回到原點的恢復速度 (數字越小越快)
- dampingFraction: 物件回到原點之後的反彈動畫大小 (數字越小反彈效果越大)

```
BackCardView()
    .offset(x: viewState.width, y: viewState.height)

BackCardView()
    .offset(x: viewState.width, y: viewState.height)

CardView()
    .offset(x: viewState.width, y: viewState.height)
    .animation(.spring(response: 0.3, dampingFraction: 0.6, blendDuration: 0))
```

### Reset Position
- Let's add a new event for when the user releases the card. That event is called `onEnded`.
- 當拖曳手勢結束，將 state 設回原點

```
.onEnded { value in
    self.viewState = .zero
}
```

### Animation
- We can play around with the animation timing to create a stagger effect, which makes the cards seem more organic when they turn to their initial position.

```
CardView()
    .animation(.easeInOut(duration: 0.5))

CardView()
    .animation(.easeInOut(duration: 0.3))

CertificateView()
    .animation(.spring())
```

### Toggle Show States
- During those gesture events, we can also decide to trigger the animation show state, so that the transitions that we set previously will also activate. Those other transitions are: `rotation`, `blur`, `offset`, etc.
- 拖曳的時候背景模糊，放開恢復

```
.onChanged { value in
    self.show = true
}
.onEnded { value in
    self.show = false
}
```
