# SF Symbols and Props

### Menu Text
- For the first menu item, we'll use a simple Text element with a font modifier.

```
Text("Account")
    .font(.system(size: 20, weight: .bold, design: .default))
```

### SF Symbol Icon
- In SwiftUI, you can easily generate icons from SF Symbols using their name. Additionally, you can customize the size (small, medium, large), change the weight and change the icon color.

```
HStack(spacing: 16) {
    Image(systemName: "gear")
        .font(.system(size: 20, weight: .light))
        .imageScale(.large)
    // Text
}
```

### Menu Container
- Our menu item needs to be wrapped inside a VStack so that we can styled the container. Also, it is necessary to have a parent container in order to create a component for each child item.

```
VStack {
    // HStack
}
```

### MenuRow Component
- In order to make each menu item reusable, we'll create a component. To do so, let's Command click the HStack and select `Extract Subview`. Name the component MenuRow(). Also, let's duplicate 3 times by copy and pasting.

```
VStack {
    MenuRow()
}
```

### Customizable Components
- You can create variables for your components so that you can pass data to them and make them custom. Think of those variables as Sketch Overrides. We're going to create the image and text variables.

```
var title: String
var icon: String
```
```
Image(systemName: icon)
```
```
Text(title)
```

### Custom Components
- Now you can customize your components by passing custom variables.

```
MenuRow(title: "Account", icon: "gear")
MenuRow(title: "Billing", icon: "creditcard")
MenuRow(title: "Sign out", icon: "person.crop.circle")
```

### Stack Spacing
- Let's align our menu items to the left and add a gap of 20 between each item by using the spacing property.

```
VStack(spacing: 16) {}
```

### Frame Alignment
- Since the text doesn't take enough spacing, we'll using a fixed size and align it to the left within the frame.

```
// Text
.frame(width: 120, alignment: .leading)
```

### Menu Container Styling
- We want our menu container to take the full width and to have some spacing in the right. You can have multiple padding modifiers to achieve that.

```
.frame(maxWidth: .infinity)
.frame(height: 300)
.background(Color.white)
.clipShape(RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 30, style: .continuous))
.shadow(radius: 30)
.padding(.horizontal, 30)
```

### Align Bottom
- Our card should be aligned to the bottom, so we're going to use a Spacer. Let's also add some padding from the bottom by using offset.

```
VStack {
    Spacer()

    VStack {}
}
.padding(.bottom, 30)
```
