# Tab Bar and Test on Device

### Create TabBar File
- Let's start by creating a new file called TabBar.swift where we'll put our Tab Bar navigation. The Tab Bar is pretty much a wrapper that will include the screens that it will navigate to.

### TabbedView
- All you need to create your Tab Bar with a first screen is to include your View inside a TabbedView.

```
TabView {
    Home()
}
```

### Customize Tab
- To add a text for the Tab, we'll need to set the tabItem modifier with a Text element.

```
Home().tabItem {
    Text("Home")
}
```

### Tab with Image
- Let's also add an icon by embedding in a VStack. SF Symbols is not currently supported, so we'll use an Image asset from the Assets Catalog.

```
Home().tabItem {
    Image(systemName: "play.circle.fill")
    Text("Home")
}
```

### More Tabs
- To create more tabs, you just need to copy and paste the first Tab code and customize the `Content View`, Image and Text.

```
CourseList().tabItem {
    Image(systemName: "rectangle.stack.fill")
    Text("Certificates")
}
UpdateList().tabItem {
    Image(systemName: "bell")
    Text("Updates")
}
```

### Preview Multiple Devices
- You can preview your layout against multiple devices by embedding in the Group and adding the previewDevice modifier. If you Option + Click previewDevice, you can see the whole list of devices you can use.

```
Group {
    Home().previewDevice("iPhone 8")
    Home().previewDevice("iPad Pro (9.7-inch)")
}
```

### Initial Screen
- If you wish to test your app in the iOS simulator or on your device, you'll need to set up the initial screen. This setting can be found in the SceneDelegate.swift file.

```
// SceneDelegate.swift
window.rootViewController = UIHostingController(rootView: Home())
```

### Test in the iOS Simulator
- Once your app is starting to shape up, you'll want to test it on a device. During the beta, some things are slightly rendered differently, such as the way the notch area is showing or the accessibility options we'll explain in the next section.

### Device Environment Overrides
- When you preview your app in the iOS Simulator or on your device, you have access to a myriad of useful options to test your app against Interface Styles, Text sizes and Accessibility options like Increase Contrast, Reduce Transparency, etc.

### Test on Device
- To test on your device, make sure to set up your Apply ID in `Preferences > Accounts`. Additionally, you can go to your `Project settings` in the Navigator. In `Signing & Capabilities`, make sure to have a Team selected, or click Add an Account and go through the process.

- Once your Team is set up, connect your device via USB and it'll appear in the Device dropdown in the top left. Click the play button or press `Command + R`.
